Can we stick on the Kamo absurdism versus existentialism. Sure.
What do you think is the difference in your ideas about, uh,
anarchism too?
It seems like those are somehow intricately connected
because, uh,
existentialism it's connected to freedom and freedom is connected
to anarchism.
Sure. But I mean, Sutra was a defender of the Soviet union. Uh,
he said explicitly about things like gulags. Like even if it's true,
we shouldn't talk about it. Um, so he it's,
what people don't appreciate is how, uh,
beings can have contradictory ideas in their minds at the same time.
So one would think, okay, someone's a Democrat. They think ABC,
therefore they can think DF people could have all sorts of contradictions and
it's not at all clear. And they'll,
they'll have a clean conscious cuz the human mind is very sophisticated. Um,
and is capable of doing this.
So Sarra, you know, was, you would think he's this radical in realist,
you know, this sense of ultimate freedom, but he's defending the Soviet union.
Uh Kamoo on the other hand would probably be,
was very much like a social Democrat.
He didn't really talk about what politics should be so much as it shouldn't be
his essay reflections on the guillotine is one of the great masterpieces of all
time, uh, an attack on the death penalty,
not in terms of no one's evil or it's wrong to kill murderers,
but in terms of what does it do for a society?
If you have someone who set, takes a person and locks them in a room and says,
you know, in two years, I'm going to murder you and you lock them for that.
This is not someone we regard as moral,
regardless of someone who's a complete monster, but that's what the state does,
you know, with a death penalty. And, and he challenges us to think,
is this the kind of people we want to be do? And again, he's saying,
I'm not saying killing a murder is wrong. I'm not saying evil is wrong.
His entire career was dedicated to fighting the concept of evil,
but are we the kind of people who want to be doing these things that in
any other context we regard as torture or depraved.
So I'm much more of a Kamo person than a star Trek person. So he.
Was probably against war in that same way. So I don't, I have to, uh, admit,
I don't know much about the political side of Kamo.
Well,
and I don't think his political side that interesting or relevant what I find,
sorry, interrupt you. I,
what I find fascinating about Kamoo and what I think about on a daily base from
him is his insistence that you have to live a life based
on conscience, that you have to be accountable to yourself.
When you put your pill,
your head on the pill at the end of the day and ask yourself,
did I live a righteous life with integrity through to my values?
Did I, uh, not needlessly cause harm to innocent people? Um,
you know, that kind of mindset did I, if someone is weak,
am I using that as an opportunity to exploit them or to harm them? Or do I feel,
uh, a bit of sympathy or empathy for this person?
Because maybe they didn't have circumstances that were, you know, as, as, um,
uh, beneficial as other people had. Well, how does that fit?
Absurdism where everything is absurd. Nothing has meaning, uh,
you know, the really borders on nihilism.
You. So he, his, he regards ni his,
his philosophy explicitly said is a response to nihilism and a,
uh, attack nihilism. He, you know,
he regards cynicism as like the worst value people can have.
And I agree with him 100%,
a lot of times people call me cynical online and I push back a very hard because
to be a CI, I, you know, I had this quote and then you write where I say,
I'd rather be naive than a cynic because a cynic is a hopeless man who projects
his hopelessness to the world at large, uh, camu. This is the metaphor I use.
And I find it very inspirational. I thought it was in his work,
but I guess I thought of it, ascribed it to him. Yeah.
There's two types of people. You imagine you go to a mountainside and you see a,
a,
a blank canvas on an easel standing in front of this mountain side.
One, people would be like, why is this blank canvas here? You know, what, what,
what was this what's going on here? Uh, and just be confused.
Whereas the other type of person will be like this,
a blank canvas here in beautiful countryside.
What a great opportunity I can paint this river. I can paint that bird.
I can paint my friends or myself in the background, infinite choices.
And this is a gift that I have been given.
And I think that also ties very heavily into what I was.
I went to Yeshiva as a kid, which is Jewish school, what we were taught in,
in incessantly, uh,
how to look at life is this beautiful gift that God has given you.
And that God wants you to be happy.
He wants you to live to the fullest in a moral way.
I remember the first time I went into a church and they were asking questions
about the Jewish concept, the afterlife,
they weren't familiar with Jewish thought and it took me a second cuz I didn't
really have answers. And then I remembered what we were taught,
which is let's suppose you're at this banquet with the best chef on earth and
the table's so heavy cuz you've got steaks and you've got chicken and you've got
sushi and the wines flowing and you've got your, uh, Dr. Pepper and,
and Mr. And Mr. P and the store brand, everything you want.
And you're looking around at this amazing bounty, right? Yeah.
And then you turn to this best chef on earth and you're like, oh,
so what's for dessert. I mean,
the offensiveness of that is just so you know, insane. Like you have this,
eat the meal. Like I promise you if I could deliver this meal,
the dessert's gonna be okay.
So this focus on the afterlife when we've been given this amazing gift,
uh, you know, on this earth is,
is a very kind of different mindset from both the Jewish traditionist I'd been
taught. And the Kamo mindset,
obviously Kamo was an atheist didn't believe in an afterlife,
but this concept that life is a, is meaningless,
but that means you have that opportunity to find value,
to seek for truth, to seek for happiness.